# CS-465-Repository
CS-465 Full Stack Development

Initial upload of source files.
MK II - Incorporates week 1 changes.
MK III - Incorporates week 2 changes.
MK IV - Incorporates week 3 changes.
MK V - Incorporates week 4 changes.
MK VI - Incorporates week 5 changes.
MK VII - Incorporates week 6 changes.
MK VIII - Incorporates week 7 changes.
MK IX - Incorporates week 8 changes.

Based on the requirements provided to us, we constructed a web application utilizing JavaScript-based framework MEAN Stack. To put it simply, there are four key components that will make up the layers or “Stack” first of which is MongoDB, which is the database to store documents. Next is Express.js, which is addon to the Node.js web framework, Express.js works to match an incoming URL to a specific server function. Next is Angular.js, that is the client-side of the JavaScript framework, which allows us to create dynamic and interactive web experience that the client is looking for. Lastly, Node.js. a premier JavaScript web server that, along with Express.js form the backbone of the server for the web application. The reasons we chose these components for this web page development is that these components are flexible, scalable, and cost effective. MongoDB is a NoSQL database program that allows for large amounts of data to be scaled easily and can handle high user loads. And that data will be in a JSON format which uses human-readable text to store and transmit data. Express is the application that, as stated earlier, we use as a template to provide essential features to the applications on the back end, the site's structure, system, data, and logic, which allows for faster development, which in turn reduces cost. Angular is a front-end framework, the visual aspects of a website, used for developing Single Page Applications (SPA). Node is a server environment that helps in the development process of applications. The benefit of these tools is they are all written in JavaScript making development simpler and quicker, which as we stated will help reduce development costs and allows the user to interact with the database through a user-friendly single admin page. We chose to go with a SPA website design instead of the more traditional method of a web browser that loads whole pages each time as user navigates around the website. An SPA, interacts with the user by dynamically rewriting the web page due to the fact that certain elements of the web page are always the same, such as the header, footer, banners and the navigation. So, rather than loading entire new pages from the server, SPA deceases load time between pages providing a more fluid and pleasant experience for the user and decreases the amount of information a server has to send thus creating a more cost-efficient process for the business. Also, with this particular method of the full stack process, you can tweak and refactor code to help improve functionality and efficiencies and tailor the software specifically to the customers need, such as adding short cut buttons just under the header to help users quickly navigate to specific locations, say like short cut to the shopping cart so they can see what there are purchasing. The benefits that come from using reusable user interface (UI) components, so it will respond well in most types of computer/internet environments, even with poor connectivity, we can expect good page loading speeds. And since resources like HTML and Bootstrap CSS are load typically once, this improves the response times even more as there is no need to reload the same thing as the user clicks along. Another advantage of the SPA functionality is that it provides the user with a better overall experience such as transition, scrolling and smoothing effects and allows for clear and clean movement from beginning, middle and end. Lastly is the fact that SPA can cashe very effectively, thus allowing users with limited bandwidth the ability to continue working, then application will synchronize with the server when once the connection has improved. The functionality that SPAs can provide amount to giving the user a fantastic and enjoyable functionality that doesn't require the page to constantly reload when users interact and navigate webpage. Because the SPA can load all of its content on a single page, hence the name single-page application this provides the users with a seamless experience. SPA’s are much faster than other more traditional web applications which direct users to whole another web page on the same site. And, since it can perform its functionality web browser itself rather than on the server, this makes SPA’s faster than traditional web apps. And SPAs can multi task, loading data quickly while fetching new data in the background. For testing, we are using an API (Application Program Interface) to test the SPA is working properly by verifying that the SPA is functional and reliable. This is done via software, which submits calls to the system, then once it gets its renounce, it will record it. Testing SPA's interactions with the API’s ability to GET and PUT data in the database is one of the key steps to testing the functionality of the software. Unit tests can be written specifically to test individual components, services, and other modules of code in an isolated and controlled environment, simulating different scenarios to ensure that the application handles the information properly. This helps removes the human error aspect. However, this style of testing not focus on the feel or the overall functionality of the UI of the newly created SPA, which can be done by a human. This is where we perform what is called End-to-End tests or E2E. These tests serve to simulate user interactions, ensuing the web page functions as advertised. Logging in, site navigation, moving through different pages, submitting online forms, and verifying the data in the database are some of the aspects that an E2E test can cover. And these tests also provide testing of the basic security functions, such as login errors, network errors, request errors, and fatal errors. And again, these tests are to simulate different scenarios and monitor the responses and ensure that the application is handling them promptly and correctly to provide the user with a reliable and bug-free user experience. And while I am by no means a coder, I have learned more and developed my understanding of code and how everything works together. Undoubtedly this will help me to achieve a job where in, I don’t travel as much and where in I am in a leadership role, not just a traveling tech. 
